in this lesson i want to look at factors
to help reduce cost
so in the last lesson we looked at well
things that influenced the cost now what
can i do to try and reduce it
so let's look at some of the things that
make us pay money so the number of
instances we're actually using
so here a great way to reduce that cost
is well
i want to use auto scale
make sure we're using technologies that
let us do auto scale this could be
virtual machine scale sets
if it's azure kubernetes services there
are capabilities there for the cluster
auto scaler and the horizontal pod auto
scaler the number of container instances
we have app service plans they have auto
scale capabilities but also if i can
let's use serverless serverless really
helps us optimize that spend so if we
can think about shifting from i as to
pass as much as possible
make sure we use the right skew type
remember we think about that ratio
of things like cpu
to memory
understand the resource our
work is doing and is it using more cpu
as it uses memory and make sure we pick
the correct skew so we're not wasting
resource
make sure when we're not using something
we de-allocate
to de-allocate when it's not in use if i
have a test dev environment shut things
down at night there are things to help
me virtual machines for example have an
auto shutdown capability built in i can
say hey at 7 pm every night shut this
down so you can help us save the money
delete resources
when not required
if i'm finished with a certain project
or test delete it
this is why putting things in a resource
group together that make up a certain
service not only helps move the life
cycle management of provisioning and
running and policy and our back and
budget when it's finished i don't
accidentally leave things behind hey i
delete the vm but i forget to delete the
disk and the disk might be a greater
cost if i'm using premium disks for
example than the compute itself so make
sure we delete things when it's no
longer required
if tiers are available for a service
use it so we think about hey this
tiering think about storage remember
remember we have that idea of well we
can have hot
we can have cool
i can have archive
use those
remember there are things like life
cycle management and it will
automatically move things between them
based on the interactions be it
modification or access
so i'm doing the most optimal because
remember
with storage yes i pay for the amount
used
but i also pay for interactions ie
transactions and so there might be a
better balance if it's data i need to
keep online but i'm not really accessing
well that's more cost efficient to store
in cool because i pay less for the
capacity but more for the transactions
but i'm not going to be doing many
transactions so that's a good
idea
get to paz as much as i can i kind of
talked about that already
make sure i can always identify who owns
a resource in the old days of virtual
machines on premises you had this vm
sprawl
you had a ton of vms and you had no idea
who owned them and you had no idea what
they were used for so you were too
afraid to actually delete them for fear
of breaking the planet
so when i'm thinking about my cloud
estate
make sure i can always identify
what business unit owns these resources
are they test are they production what
is the cost center
so a thing to really help me
drive and be successful with that is use
tags
this helps me with that identification
so i never have some resource and i'm
like what is this used for who owns this
make them have tags i can use policy to
enforce them remember so i can always
tell what something is being used for
and also look at things like remember
azure advisor
azure advisor gives you those nice
recommendations around many different
things but one of them is hey my cost
optimization so go and take a look at
that
now there are all things i can do that
impact the cost of the resources running
in azure
but there are other things i can do as
well
if we think about hey
is something running and how many
instances i have
well there might be over a period of
time
there's a floor there's a floor of an
amount of resource i am always using
so if i was to think about
time
and let's just say amount
this could be in terms of the amount of
storage could be the amount of database
consumption it could be number of vm
cores whatever that might be
and this time could be daily could be
weekly annually there's some seasonality
but the key point is the usage maybe
varies a little bit over time
but there's some based amount that you
are always using let's just i'll draw a
line here as an example
i'm always using that amount
there's something called azure
reservations
and what this enables us to do
is we can essentially commit
i'm going to commit for typically a one
or three year term
i'm going to use this amount and pay for
that amount even if i slightly drop
below
and i get a really big discount
and it is a really big discount
so what this is now saying it's a
billing mechanism
i'm going to say i'm going to commit to
use this amount of resource for the next
one or three year term
and then that amount of resource you're
going to build me for whether i'm using
or not which is why we kind of want to
pick a floor the minimum we're going to
use we're not wasting money
but then for that amount you're going to
give me a huge discount the amount i use
over that i'll pay the regular
pay-as-you-go rate
and we can see this if i jump over for a
second
and this is the pricing calculator which
we're going to come back to but for
right now i'm just going to add a
virtual machine now a virtual machine is
not the only type there are many
different types of resource we can use
this with storage databases
huge number of services i can use this
for
but the key point of this is let's just
say for example i always knew
i was going to use 10
of these virtual machines so let's just
say 10 there
and what i see then is a price you can
see well that's going to cost me over
here on the right hand side
let's just say 1500 for simplicity
but notice i have this option here
of pay as you go the regular rate
or
i get these huge discounts if i'm
willing to commit to some minimum amount
i'm going to use for one or three years
so if i know i'm going to need 10 of
these vms and i actually get some
flexibility in the sizes
if i say hey i'm going to know i'm going
to use these for three years
suddenly my bill
becomes a thousand dollars
so i get a huge saving off of the
compute
charge
now it's a 57 discount on the compute
side and there's something else that
goes into that to make this even easier
to understand i'm going to pick an
operating system for a second
where there is no licensing component so
it's
854 a month for 10 of them
so now if i apply that three year
suddenly it's 370
so you can see reserved instances
essentially let me get a huge discount
if i am willing to say hey yeah
i know
i'm going to use that amount of resource
for a certain period of time
so once you've started to use azure and
you get a good feeling for the amount of
resource you're using
using azure reservations is really going
to help you get a big saving
so this is one thing
helps us save money
now the other thing that maybe
i may not just be brand new in the cloud
i may have been using azure on-premises
and i had existing licensing so i was on
prem
and maybe i had
windows licensing
maybe i had sql licensing
maybe even it was other types of things
like red hat
or suse
and what i can actually do is i can
bring those licenses
for use
in azure
and this is all around the idea of
hybrid
use
benefit
i.e you've already got some licenses
they're covered as part of some software
assurance or whatever the agreement is
there
you can bring those to azure so i don't
have to pay for the license in azure as
well which is
a component of the cost so if we go back
to that pricing calculator and now we'll
understand why that windows one looked a
little bit funny so windows
includes the cost of a windows server
license in that vm price
so my pay-as-you-go
notice it says
license
included i'm paying for pay as you go
but if i already had licenses available
i can say hey yeah azure hybrid benefit
i've got that as part of my agreement
look at the cost the cost suddenly goes
down big time
to the same as what a linux vm was
and now i could combine that
with azure reservations as well
so now down to 370 a month so i've gone
from
down to 370
by committing to using some level for a
three-year term
and i had existing licenses i'm gonna
bring to the cloud
so using those things together is super
super powerful
now one final thing i might have
workloads that i need to get some piece
of work done
but it can be interrupted
and it's resumable
because when i think about azure well
azure has a huge amount of spare
capacity
if you consider that i as a customer
anytime can come along and create
hundreds of virtual cpu cores when i do
that create
i don't sit there and wait two weeks for
microsoft to order a server for someone
to rack it and connect it and install an
os no
when i think about azure
there's a huge amount
of spare capacity
well no one likes to have capacity just
wasted if we can get some money for it
and so what we can do as the customer
there's a concept
called spot
vms and a spot vm is basically super
cheap
it's very cheap
but it's cheaper because it's using
that spare capacity
and i as the customer
basically say look i'm willing to pay
up to some amount of money
if the price goes above that because
demand increases
they'll de-allocate my virtual machine
or no matter what the price
if on demand customers need it and their
short capacity i'm willing to have my
workload stopped so i use this if my
workload can be stopped
like some sort of batch job and it is
resumable
so i can restart it from the point it
was stopped and i've not lost all that
progress so if i have some workload that
meets those criteria i can get super
super cheap capacity
and we can see that if i actually pop
over to the portal for a second
and if i go and create a virtual machine
but i can use other things on spot vms
like virtual machine scale set aks node
pools
if i say i want to create a vm
and what i'll just do is i'll leave it
as east us but i'm going to say here hey
look i want this to be an azure spot
instance
now i'm going to change it from that to
a d2
and what it's going to now say is look
how do you want to do this do you want
to set a max price or you're willing to
pay up to the max price but you're still
lower priority
and i can see a history
and this is showing me
how the price has varied over the last
three months
and you can see it's super cheap and
it's also showing me
things like what's the chance
of it being evicted so 10 to 15
over 20 percent in a nearby region east
u.s too
and i can see the average price you pay
over that period of time
and what we can see here is well
actually canada
barely ever gets evicted zero to five
percent and it's cheaper so obviously
they have a lot more spare capacity and
they don't tend to have the same
pressure so that helps me pick well
actually maybe then i'll create it in a
different region because i don't really
care where it runs i just need it to run
and i've got a less chance of it being
evicted
and so spot vms can really help me
optimize my cost by taking advantage
of that spare capacity so definitely if
you have a workload that can be stopped
and then can be resumed when the
capacity is available again
definitely consider spot vm so lots of
things we can do
to actually
help reduce and optimize our costs